The six good article criteria are the only aspects that should be considered when assessing whether to pass or fail an article. All other comments designed to help improve the article are to be encouraged during the review process but should not be mandated as part of the assessment.

A good article (GA) is an article that meets a core set of editorial standards, the good article criteria, passing through the good article nomination process successfully. They are well written, contain factually accurate and verifiable information, are broad in coverage, neutral in point of view, stable, and illustrated, where possible, by relevant images with suitable copyright licenses. Good articles do not have to be as comprehensive as featured articles (FA), but they should not omit any major facets of the topic: a comparison of the criteria for good and featured articles describes further differences.

An article can, but by no means must, be failed without further review (known as a quick fail) if, prior to the review:
It is a long way from meeting any one of the six good article criteria
It contains copyright violations
It has, or needs, cleanup banners that are unquestionably still valid.
It is not stable due to edit warring on the page
A reviewer who has not previously reviewed the article determines that any issues from previous GA nominations have not been adequately considered

In all other cases, the nominator deserves a full review against the six criteria from the reviewer. For most reviews, the nominator is given a chance to address any issues raised by the reviewer before the article is failed. Often the nomination is brought up to standard during the review. 

The process for designating an article as a good article is intentionally straightforward. Any editor, preferably one who creates or contributes to an article, who believes that the article meets the good article criteria, may nominate the article for an impartial reviewer to assess. Another editor may review the article after selecting it from a queue of good article nominations then evaluating it against the good article criteria. If it is accepted by the reviewer, the nominated article is added to the list of good articles below. Anyone may nominate or review an article by following the instructions. Similarly, anyone who believes that an article no longer meets the good article criteria may propose to delist it by following the instructions for reassessment.
